LONDON, Nov 30 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Sweden’s Lundin family may be getting itchy feet again. Oil and gas company Lundin Energy (LUNE.ST), in which the family holds a 33% stake, is considering a sale or merger, Bloomberg said on Monday. The company’s vague statement that it will consider opportunities dampened some of investors’ enthusiasm, erasing the 10% gain in the $10 billion company’s stock price after the article. The Lundin family has a history of savvy dealmaking, for example selling out of Red Back Mining for $7 billion in 2010. Now is a good time to cash in some chips. Lundin’s fields are efficient, with a pre-tax breakeven price of $18 per barrel, according to JP Morgan, and relatively clean; the company says its operations can be carbon neutral by 2023. That could make it attractive to a diversified energy major. Shareholders, however, may prefer a clean exit at a rich price over a messy merger with a less desirable partner. Lundin trades at 10 times 2022 earnings, more than double the industry median, according to Refinitiv data. Any buyer will need deep pockets. (By Dasha Afanasieva) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Wise’s investors keep faith with fintech mission  read more  Moderna’s $40 bln shot gain  read more  Saudi stock market cashes in on its own growth  read more  Meituan serves cold warning on Chinese consumers  read more  Software AG can log onto buyout boom  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.