WASHINGTON, Dec 3 (Reuters Breakingviews) - The disappointing U.S. jobs growth of 210,000 positions in November seems to be an outlier. There are more promising signs for the economy, like the labor participation rate ticking up after months of stagnation. Economists surveyed by Reuters expected payrolls to add 550,000 jobs. But there have been big upward revisions by the Labor Department throughout this year, including in Friday’s report that tacked on an additional 82,000 jobs for September and October. The same could happen later for the November figure. Other indicators are going in the right direction for the economy. The unemployment rate  fell by 0.4 percentage points to 4.2% while the employment-to-population ratio rose. The Omicron variant is a concern that could further hamper a chance at a recovery. Leisure and hospitality added a tepid 23,000 positions while retail lost 20,000 jobs. But a record number of people quit their jobs in September, with 0.7 unemployed persons for every job opening. That suggests a tight labor market  read more  instead of cautious employers. (By Gina Chon) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Dan Loeb swats away activist with heavy hand  read more  Crown plays weak hand against Blackstone  read more  Volkswagen channels its inner Henry Ford  read more  Turkey spends money it doesn’t have  read more  Bondholder rejection forces China developer’s hand  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.