LONDON, Dec 2 (Reuters Breakingviews) - The Rothermere family seems keen to avoid the label of buyout vultures. The clan, which controls Daily Mail and General Trust (DMGOa.L) via a dual-class share structure despite owning just 36% of the British tabloid newspaper owner, on Thursday sweetened its offer for the remaining shares. It’s a gesture that should win approval from independent investors as well as the paper’s news desk, which has campaigned against private equity groups snapping up listed UK companies on the cheap. The Rothermeres’ initial offer  read more  was hardly stingy, valuing DMGT’s media division at just under 13 times its expected operating profit for this year. The 6% bump lifts that to nearly 13.5 times, well over double the multiple of media rival Reach (RCH.L), owner of the Daily Express and Mirror tabloids. With the tender treating all shareholders equally, the Rothermeres need the support of other investors to get control; they have 42% so far. On Thursday the family improved its chances by lowering the threshold for success to 50%. This is one buyout the Daily Mail will not oppose. (By Ed Cropley) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Dan Loeb swats away activist with heavy hand  read more  Crown plays weak hand against Blackstone  read more  Volkswagen channels its inner Henry Ford  read more  Turkey spends money it doesn’t have  read more  Bondholder rejection forces China developer’s hand  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.