The company and law firm names shown above are generated automatically based on the text of the article. We are improving this feature as we continue to test and develop in beta. We welcome feedback, which you can provide using the feedback tab on the right of the page. (Reuters) - The Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation has transferred a batch of lawsuits against T-Mobile US Inc over its recently disclosed data breach to a Kansas City, Missouri federal court. The panel in a Friday order centralized the litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Missouri. T-Mobile's lawyers advocated for the venue in Sept. 14 filing. There are at least 44 proposed class actions filed in courts across the country against T-Mobile over the incident, the panel said in the order. The breach exposed names, birth dates, social security numbers, driver's license information and other data of at least 53 million current, former and prospective customers, the company revealed in August. Lawyers for plaintiffs in one case initially urged the panel to transfer the cases to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington. The Bellevue, Washington-based wireless carrier pushed instead for Missouri, citing a judge shortage in the Washington district. Plaintiffs in the other cases had advocated for different venues across the country. The Missouri federal court is a "geographically central and accessible venue" that can "efficiently manage" the litigation, Friday's order said. U.S. District Judge Brian Wimes will oversee the litigation. Norman Siegel of Stueve Siegel Hanson, who represents the plaintiffs that moved for centralization in Washington, said his team looks forward getting the litigation moving. Kristine Brown of Alston & Bird, who represents T-Mobile, didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. The case is In re: T-Mobile Customer Data Security Breach Litigation, Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, MDL No. 3019. For the movant plaintiffs: Norman Siegel of Stueve Siegel Hanson For T-Mobile: Kristine Brown of Alston & Bird Read More: T-Mobile, customers diverge on forum to transfer data breach suits T-Mobile breach hits 53 million customers as probe finds wider impact Sara Merken reports on privacy and data security, as well as the business of law, including legal innovation and key players in the legal services industry. Reach her at sara.merken@thomsonreuters.com