LONDON, Dec 6 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Investors in Dutch fund services company Intertrust (INTER.AS) have found a safe haven. The Amsterdam-based company said on Monday that its board had agreed to a takeover bid by private U.S. rival CSC for around 1.8 billion euros. The offer of 20 euros per share in cash is 59% above Intertrust’s share price before takeover interest emerged last month. It’s also 11% higher than the 18 euros per share proposed by private equity group CVC, which owns Dutch rival TMF but withdrew last week. Investors are probably breathing a sigh of relief. Intertrust’s stock market performance has been disappointing, with the shares consistently trading below their initial public offering price. CSC’s offer values the company at 12 times 2020 EBITDA, according to Refinitiv data. Rival Sanne (SNNS.L) was sold earlier this year for 29 times. But Intertrust’s business is growing slowly and faces regulatory headwinds as developed countries crack down on companies shifting profits between different corporate entities to minimise tax. Teaming up with a U.S. rival offers a welcome escape. (By Karen Kwok) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Mattress IPO puts Chinese mystery to bed  read more  Zoom’s pandemic hedge  read more  Solid U.S. labor signs outshines slow jobs growth  read more  Dan Loeb swats away activist with heavy hand  read more  Crown plays weak hand against Blackstone  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.