LONDON, Dec 6 (Reuters Breakingviews) - If imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, Sika (SIKA.S) boss Thomas Hasler should be doubly pleased. His French arch rival Saint-Gobain (SGOB.PA), which tried and failed to buy the $56 billion Swiss group five years ago, is tearing a leaf out of Hasler’s carbon dioxide-reduction playbook with its $2.3 billion acquisition of U.S. chemicals group GCP Applied Technologies (GCP.N). That it’s doing so on less favourable terms can only add to his sense of satisfaction. That’s not to say Benoit Bazin, $34 billion Saint-Gobain’s chief executive, is making a mistake. GCP will boost his annual sales by a third, to around 4 billion euros. Importantly, more than half of those will come from North America, far from Saint-Gobain’s traditional stamping ground and just in time for U.S. President Joe Biden’s massive infrastructure spending rollout. GCP also helps Bazin burnish his green credentials – its chemicals will help the construction sector reduce its carbon footprint by making stronger glues and more durable concrete. Cement production accounts for 8% of global CO2 emissions. The catch is that Hasler pulled off a very similar move only last month with his acquisition of German conglomerate BASF’s (BASFn.DE) old construction chemicals unit for $6 billion. And besides making a bigger climate splash, with COP26 delegates still in Glasgow when the deal was announced, he appears to have got a slightly better deal. Bazin reckons his transaction will deliver $72 million in annual synergies. Added to GCP’s $119 million of operating profit next year and after deducting U.S. corporation tax at 21%, the transaction delivers a 6.8% return on investment. On its own, that’s tidy – academics at NYU Stern estimate that the speciality chemicals sector’s cost of capital is only 5%. Hence why Saint-Gobain shares rose marginally on Monday. In relative terms, however, it comes out second best. After deducting a similar amount of tax, the savings and operating profit from Hasler’s new German unit should deliver a sweeter 7.5% return, according to Breakingviews calculations. Ordinarily, such corporate one-upmanship shouldn’t matter. But Saint-Gobain and Sika have history. Since 2016, when it was fending off Saint-Gobain’s advances, the latter has bulked up to more than treble its market value. Over the same period, Saint-Gobain shares are up by a mere quarter. At this rate, the hunter will become the hunted. Follow @edwardcropley on Twitter CONTEXT NEWS - French construction materials group Saint-Gobain said on Dec. 6 it would buy U.S. speciality chemicals company GCP Applied Technologies for around $2.3 billion. - Saint-Gobain said the $32 per share deal would boost its efforts to help the construction sector cut carbon dioxide emissions via measures such as reduced use of cement. - The Paris-based group said it hoped to achieve annual cost synergies of $72 million within five years, and $13 million in additional annual revenue as a result of cross-selling of products. - Saint-Gobain shares were up 0.6% at 58.20 euros by 0815 GMT on Dec. 6. BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.