NEW YORK, Dec 7 (Reuters) - A third woman who has accused Ghislaine Maxwell of grooming her for abuse by the late financier Jeffrey Epstein testified at the British socialite's criminal trial that she gave Epstein sexual massages when she was 14. The woman, identified as Carolyn, recalled how Epstein would touch her breasts and buttocks, and that the encounters would end with Epstein masturbating until he ejaculated. "Something sexual happened every single time," Carolyn, who chose not to reveal her last name, told jurors in Manhattan federal court. Carolyn said Maxwell would sometimes call her to schedule appointments with Epstein, during each of which she would be paid $300 to $400, and that Maxwell once touched her while she was preparing to massage Epstein. She said she had told Maxwell she was 14. "I was fully nude and she came in and she felt my boobs and my hips and my buttocks and said that...I had a great body for Mr. Epstein and his friends," Carolyn said. Maxwell, 59, has pleaded not guilty to eight counts of sex trafficking and other charges. Carolyn is the third of four women identified in Maxwell's 2021 indictment as victims. The trial began on Nov. 29 and is expected to continue into January. Maxwell's lawyers have claimed the memories of the four alleged victims have been corrupted over the years, and that Maxwell is being prosecuted only because Epstein is no longer alive. The globetrotting investor killed himself in 2019 at the age of 66 in a Manhattan jail cell while awaiting sex trafficking charges. Last week, jurors heard from a woman known by the pseudonym Jane, who testified that Epstein sexually abused her beginning in 1994 while she was 14. Maxwell sometimes participated in their encounters, which often began as massages before escalating, Jane said. On Monday, jurors also heard from Kate, a pseudonym for a woman who said she had sexual encounters with Epstein from the age of 17. Prosecutors referred to Kate as a "minor victim" in the indictment, but U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan instructed the jury on Monday that she was above the age of consent. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.