LONDON, Dec 1 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Volkswagen’s (VOWG_p.DE) drive to control the future of motoring leans heavily on the past. The 110 billion euro car giant will next week lay out its plans to invest 30 billion euros over the next five years building six large battery cell factories in Europe. Board member and technology chief Thomas Schmall said on Wednesday that could even involve becoming a mining shareholder to guarantee raw-material supplies  read more . Henry Ford, who invested in steel mills and rubber plantations a century ago, would approve. Schmall’s comments at the Reuters Next conference will be music to the ears of companies like $6 billion Australian lithium miner Pilbara Minerals (PLS.AX) or $65 billion Glencore (GLEN.L) read more , the world’s biggest cobalt producer. Volkswagen shareholders may also see logic in the unconventional detour. After all, a lithium-ion battery factory without any lithium is going nowhere. And if metal prices do go through the sun-roof, they have some sort of protection. (By Ed Cropley) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Turkey spends money it doesn’t have  read more  Bondholder rejection forces China developer’s hand  read more  Salesforce and Twitter, together again  read more  Lundin Energy sale would be better than a merger  read more  Wise’s investors keep faith with fintech mission  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.