NEW YORK, Dec 1 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Salesforce (CRM.N) once considered acquiring Twitter (TWTR.N); now it has promoted its president, Bret Taylor, to the role of co-chief executive the day after he took the job as chairman at the social-networking mainstay, announced as part of leader Jack Dorsey’s exit. The moves re-introduce a messy situation. Salesforce wanted to acquire Twitter in 2016, according to Reuters at the time. Instead, investors balked, and founder and CEO Marc Benioff backed away. It was not the only M&A frustration for the entrepreneur, who is famous for his attempts at empire-building. He lost a $26 billion bidding war for LinkedIn to Microsoft (MSFT.O) the same year. Still Benioff’s status as a prolific acquirer, as further evidenced by a leaked presentation showing a vast range of targets he considered, makes Taylor’s elevation at Twitter an uncomfortable one. Dorsey’s tenure was dogged by criticism over his dual roles at Twitter and as chief executive of fintech company Square (SQ.N). With its executive reshuffle, Twitter may have just traded one conflict for another: an absentee CEO leaves, and the co-CEO of a one-time suitor steps in to lead the board. (By Jonathan Guilford) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Lundin Energy sale would be better than a merger  read more  Wise’s investors keep faith with fintech mission  read more  Moderna’s $40 bln shot gain  read more  Saudi stock market cashes in on its own growth  read more  Meituan serves cold warning on Chinese consumers  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.