The company and law firm names shown above are generated automatically based on the text of the article. We are improving this feature as we continue to test and develop in beta. We welcome feedback, which you can provide using the feedback tab on the right of the page. (Reuters) - Lawyers for purchasers of the diabetes drug Glumetza have asked a judge to approve a fee award of about $113 million after securing more than $453 million from Bausch Health Companies Inc, Lupin Pharmaceuticals Inc and Assertio Therapeutics Inc to settle claims of anticompetitive practices related to the blockbuster drug. The plaintiffs' firms - Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro, Hilliard Shadowen and Sperling & Slater - said in a motion filed Wednesday in San Francisco federal court that the award reflected a "presumptively reasonable" 25% cut of the deal, and was supported by the large recovery and the substantial work they had done on the case. Glumetza, an extended-release version of the widely used drug metformin, was first marketed in 2005 by Assertio, then called Depomed Inc, and Santarus Inc, which was later acquired by Bausch. The purchasers claimed in their class action lawsuit that Depomed and Santarus in 2012 paid off Lupin, an Indian generic drugmaker, to delay launching a generic version of Glumetza until 2016 by agreeing to drop a patent lawsuit and provide other benefits. The resulting monopoly allowed Bausch, then called Valeant Pharmaceuticals, to hike the drug's price in 2015 to $51 per tablet, from $5.72, they said. In September, Bausch settled for $300 million, with Lupin for $150 million and Assertio for $3.85 million. The much smaller settlement with Assertio reflects the company's "precarious financial situation," according to Wednesday's motion. The case is In re Glumetza Antitrust Litigation, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, No. 3:19-cv-05822. For the purchasers: Lauren Barnes and Shana Scarlett of Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro, Joseph Vanek of Sperling & Slater and Steve Shadowen of Hilliard Shadowen For Bausch: Daniel Asimow of Arnold & Porter Kaye Scholer For Assertio: Eric Stock of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher For Lupin: Jay Lefkowitz and Devora Allon of Kirkland & Ellis Read more: Bausch to pay $300 mln in antitrust suit over diabetes drug Lupin agrees to pay $150 mln to settle Glumetza antitrust claims Brendan Pierson reports on product liability litigation and on all areas of health care law. He can be reached at brendan.pierson@thomsonreuters.com.