NEW YORK, Dec 3 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Zoom Video Communications (ZM.O) is trying to figure out how to thrive post-pandemic. Its $14.7 billion diversification effort in buying call center software firm Five9 (FIVN.O) failed as Zoom’s stock plummeted  read more , losing half its value in 12 months to $53 billion on Friday. An agreement with American Express Global Business Travel, announced Friday is a strange answer. GBT is merging with a special-purpose acquisition company backed by Apollo Global Management (APO.N) in a $5.3 billion deal. Zoom and other investors are chipping in $335 million in total alongside. The investment is partly a hedge if real-life meetings replace virtual ones. The price looks reasonable, at 10 times adjusted EBITDA, some 30% less than rival Amadeus IT (AMA.MC). Zoom may hope for more, like forging a close relationship and having its online events service collaborate with GBT’s conference business. Yet the two could have just pledged to work together without a Zoom investment. And Zoom shareholders may wonder if such a veer is a worrying signal. (By Robert Cyran) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Solid U.S. labor signs outshines slow jobs growth  read more  Dan Loeb swats away activist with heavy hand  read more  Crown plays weak hand against Blackstone  read more  Volkswagen channels its inner Henry Ford  read more  Turkey spends money it doesn’t have  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.